hints.md, before:

# Development Hints & Guidelines

## Frontend Development

### Project Structure
- All frontend code should be placed under `frontend/src`
- Components should be organized by feature or domain
- Reusable UI components should be placed in `frontend/src/components/ui`
- Follow this structure for new features:
  ```
  frontend/src/
  ├── pages/your-feature/
  │   └── index.tsx
  ├── components/your-feature/
  │   ├── feature-component.tsx
  │   └── sub-components/
  └── lib/your-feature/
      └── your-feature.service.ts
  ```

### API Integration
- Always read the corresponding backend controller and DTO files before implementing API calls
- Use strongly typed request/response interfaces that match backend DTOs
- Example API service structure:
  ```typescript
  interface CreateSomethingDto {
    // Copy types from backend DTO
  }

  export class YourFeatureService {
    async createSomething(dto: CreateSomethingDto) {
      return api.post('/api/your-feature', dto);
    }
  }
  ```

### Internationalization (i18n)
- All UI text must be added to translation files for both English and French
- Place translations in:
  - `frontend/src/i18n/locales/en/translation.json`
  - `frontend/src/i18n/locales/fr/translation.json`
- Use nested keys for feature-specific translations
- Example translation usage:
  ```typescript
  // In translation files:
  {
    "yourFeature": {
      "title": "Feature Title",
      "description": "Feature description"
    }
  }

  // In components:
  const { t } = useTranslation();
  <h1>{t('yourFeature.title')}</h1>
  ```

### Component Development
- Use shadcn/ui components from `components/ui` for consistent styling
- Implement responsive designs using Tailwind CSS
- Keep components focused and reusable
- Use TypeScript for all component props
- Example component structure:
  ```typescript
  interface FeatureProps {
    data: YourDataType;
    onAction: (id: string) => void;
  }

  export function FeatureComponent({ data, onAction }: FeatureProps) {
    const { t } = useTranslation();
    return (
      <Card>
        <CardHeader>
          <CardTitle>{t('yourFeature.title')}</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
      </Card>
    );
  }
  ```

### State Management
- Use React Context for global state when needed
- Prefer local state for component-specific data
- Use custom hooks to encapsulate complex state logic
- Follow existing patterns in `lib/auth.context.tsx`

### Best Practices
- Follow existing code style and formatting
- Use meaningful component and variable names
- Keep components focused and single-responsibility
- Implement proper error handling and loading states
- Use TypeScript for type safety
- Add comments for complex logic
- Follow existing patterns for routing and layouts
- Use existing hooks from the `hooks` directory where applicable

## Backend Development

### Project Structure
- Use a modular approach with each unit of functionality in its own module
- All modules should be placed under `backend/src/modules`
- Example structure for a new feature:
  ```
  backend/src/modules/your-feature/
  ├── your-feature.controller.ts
  ├── your-feature.module.ts
  ├── your-feature.service.ts
  ├── dto/
  │   ├── create-something.dto.ts
  │   └── update-something.dto.ts
  └── entities/
      └── something.entity.ts
  ```

### API Design
- Follow API-first approach
- All endpoints must be prefixed with `/api`
- Use consistent JSON request/response payloads
- Implement pagination for list endpoints where appropriate
- Example endpoint structure:
  ```typescript
  // List endpoint with pagination
  GET /api/your-feature?page=1&limit=10
  
  // Get single item
  GET /api/your-feature/:id
  
  // Create new item
  POST /api/your-feature
  
  // Update item
  PUT /api/your-feature/:id
  
  // Delete item
  DELETE /api/your-feature/:id
  ```

### Testing
- Focus on simple end-to-end (e2e) tests for happy path scenarios (no unit tests required for now)
- Place e2e tests in `backend/test` directory
- Do not use fixtures or mocks in e2e tests - test the real API
- Use the rest-client.ts file to make requests to the API and use the test-auth.ts file to authenticate and get a test user
- Example test structure:
  ```typescript
  describe('YourFeature (e2e)', () => {
    it('should create a new item', () => {
      // Test POST endpoint
    });

    it('should retrieve items with pagination', () => {
      // Test GET endpoint with pagination
    });
  });
  ```

### Database Development
- The application uses Knex.js for database operations and migrations
- Database configuration is environment-based:
  - test: In-memory SQLite
  - dev: SQLite file (dev.sqlite3 in repo root)
  - prod: PostgreSQL (localhost:5432)
- Migrations must be compatible with both SQLite and PostgreSQL:
  - Avoid using database-specific features
  - Place migrations in `backend/src/migrations`
  - Use timestamp-prefixed names (YYYYMMDDHHMMSS_description.ts)
- Database connections are automatically:
  - Established on application startup
  - Migrations are run on startup
  - Connections are properly closed on shutdown

### Best Practices
- Use TypeScript DTOs for request/response validation
- Include Swagger documentation for all endpoints with the `@ApiTags` and `@ApiOperation` decorators and clear descriptions
- Implement proper error handling
- Follow existing code style and formatting
- Use both INFO and DEBUG logging levels as appropriate
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Keep modules focused and single-responsibility
- All entity IDs should use ULIDs (Universally Unique Lexicographically Sortable Identifiers)

Commit message:

fix: update frontend auth to match API response format
- Updated AuthResponse interface to match backend API response
- Updated auth service to use access_token and user_id
- Updated auth context to use correct response fields
- Added API-first guidance to hints.md

hints.md, after:

# Development Hints & Guidelines

## Frontend Development

### Project Structure
- All frontend code should be placed under `frontend/src`
- Components should be organized by feature or domain
- Reusable UI components should be placed in `frontend/src/components/ui`
- Follow this structure for new features:
  ```
  frontend/src/
  ├── pages/your-feature/
  │   └── index.tsx
  ├── components/your-feature/
  │   ├── feature-component.tsx
  │   └── sub-components/
  └── lib/your-feature/
      └── your-feature.service.ts
  ```

### API Integration
- The API is the source of truth - never modify the API to match the frontend, always update the frontend to match the API
- Always read the corresponding backend controller and DTO files before implementing API calls
- Use strongly typed request/response interfaces that match backend DTOs exactly
- Example API service structure:
  ```typescript
  interface CreateSomethingDto {
    // Copy types from backend DTO
  }

  export class YourFeatureService {
    async createSomething(dto: CreateSomethingDto) {
      return api.post('/api/your-feature', dto);
    }
  }
  ```

### Internationalization (i18n)
- All UI text must be added to translation files for both English and French
- Place translations in:
  - `frontend/src/i18n/locales/en/translation.json`
  - `frontend/src/i18n/locales/fr/translation.json`
- Use nested keys for feature-specific translations
- Example translation usage:
  ```typescript
  // In translation files:
  {
    "yourFeature": {
      "title": "Feature Title",
      "description": "Feature description"
    }
  }

  // In components:
  const { t } = useTranslation();
  <h1>{t('yourFeature.title')}</h1>
  ```

### Component Development
- Use shadcn/ui components from `components/ui` for consistent styling
- Implement responsive designs using Tailwind CSS
- Keep components focused and reusable
- Use TypeScript for all component props
- Example component structure:
  ```typescript
  interface FeatureProps {
    data: YourDataType;
    onAction: (id: string) => void;
  }

  export function FeatureComponent({ data, onAction }: FeatureProps) {
    const { t } = useTranslation();
    return (
      <Card>
        <CardHeader>
          <CardTitle>{t('yourFeature.title')}</CardTitle>
        </CardHeader>
      </Card>
    );
  }
  ```

### State Management
- Use React Context for global state when needed
- Prefer local state for component-specific data
- Use custom hooks to encapsulate complex state logic
- Follow existing patterns in `lib/auth.context.tsx`

### Best Practices
- Follow existing code style and formatting
- Use meaningful component and variable names
- Keep components focused and single-responsibility
- Implement proper error handling and loading states
- Use TypeScript for type safety
- Add comments for complex logic
- Follow existing patterns for routing and layouts
- Use existing hooks from the `hooks` directory where applicable

## Backend Development

### Project Structure
- Use a modular approach with each unit of functionality in its own module
- All modules should be placed under `backend/src/modules`
- Example structure for a new feature:
  ```
  backend/src/modules/your-feature/
  ├── your-feature.controller.ts
  ├── your-feature.module.ts
  ├── your-feature.service.ts
  ├── dto/
  │   ├── create-something.dto.ts
  │   └── update-something.dto.ts
  └── entities/
      └── something.entity.ts
  ```

### API Design
- Follow API-first approach
- All endpoints must be prefixed with `/api`
- Use consistent JSON request/response payloads
- Implement pagination for list endpoints where appropriate
- Example endpoint structure:
  ```typescript
  // List endpoint with pagination
  GET /api/your-feature?page=1&limit=10
  
  // Get single item
  GET /api/your-feature/:id
  
  // Create new item
  POST /api/your-feature
  
  // Update item
  PUT /api/your-feature/:id
  
  // Delete item
  DELETE /api/your-feature/:id
  ```

### Testing
- Focus on simple end-to-end (e2e) tests for happy path scenarios (no unit tests required for now)
- Place e2e tests in `backend/test` directory
- Do not use fixtures or mocks in e2e tests - test the real API
- Use the rest-client.ts file to make requests to the API and use the test-auth.ts file to authenticate and get a test user
- Example test structure:
  ```typescript
  describe('YourFeature (e2e)', () => {
    it('should create a new item', () => {
      // Test POST endpoint
    });

    it('should retrieve items with pagination', () => {
      // Test GET endpoint with pagination
    });
  });
  ```

### Database Development
- The application uses Knex.js for database operations and migrations
- Database configuration is environment-based:
  - test: In-memory SQLite
  - dev: SQLite file (dev.sqlite3 in repo root)
  - prod: PostgreSQL (localhost:5432)
- Migrations must be compatible with both SQLite and PostgreSQL:
  - Avoid using database-specific features
  - Place migrations in `backend/src/migrations`
  - Use timestamp-prefixed names (YYYYMMDDHHMMSS_description.ts)
- Database connections are automatically:
  - Established on application startup
  - Migrations are run on startup
  - Connections are properly closed on shutdown

### Best Practices
- Use TypeScript DTOs for request/response validation
- Include Swagger documentation for all endpoints with the `@ApiTags` and `@ApiOperation` decorators and clear descriptions
- Implement proper error handling
- Follow existing code style and formatting
- Use both INFO and DEBUG logging levels as appropriate
- Use meaningful variable and function names
- Keep modules focused and single-responsibility
- All entity IDs should use ULIDs (Universally Unique Lexicographically Sortable Identifiers)
